# Data Science Homework Project


- [Information](#information)
- [License and Academic Integrity
  Notice](#license-and-academic-integrity-notice)

This repository is a Data Science Homework Project made by Jan Lorenz.
It is used for teaching Data Science Concepts and Tools courses. These
are the **[INSTRUCTIONS](INSTRUCTIONS.md)**.

## Information

üßë‚Äçüéì **For students in a Data Science Concept and Tools course**

**Check the course website** for

- guides what is advisable to do at what stage
- the requirements about Homework Projects to pass the course and
  receive a bonus

No, need to study the license below in detail now, **go ahead to the
[INSTRUCTIONS](INSTRUCTIONS.md)!**  
Consult the license below if you want to use this project as a public
repository in your data science portfolio to show to the outside world.

üßë **For anyone else**

You can use this project for learning by making one for yourself from
this template. You can also make your repository public as long as the
**license below is respected**.

## License and Academic Integrity Notice

I encouage usage and adaptations of this by anyone. I encourge students
of me to build a data science portfolio and this Homework Projekt can be
part of it.

The intention of this license is to

1.  ensure that students do not accidentially or purposeful hide away
    that a large part of the work is guided by the instructions. Even
    when the instructions are open, the work you did can show mastery of
    skills.
2.  help students to be transparent about what their own original work
    is.
3.  alert future students to not blindly copy from public work of others
    to ensure learning and avoid breaching academic integrity policies.

When you worked through this project, you can keep it in its finished
form as a public repository in your portfolio or publish the HTML from
the repository, when you keep the *License and Academic Integrity* part
in the README and the INSTRUCTIONS in the repository.

### Original Work Declaration

You can replace the content of the section *Information* above by a
statement like:

*I, \[Your Name\], worked through this project using the
[INSTRUCTIONS](INSTRUCTIONS.md) in my own way. Beyond the concrete
instructions I did original work: \[‚Ä¶\]*

### Usage Terms for a finished project for future students

This code is made available for educational reference only. Students
currently enrolled in similar courses having this as a Homework project
must respect: - Do NOT copy code blindly for their own homework. Follow
your instructions and do it yourself. - There is nothing wrong reading
this. - Be aware that this project may differ from current assignments,
and blindly copying code not fitting to your instructions can serve as
evidence for plagiarism. - Follow your institution‚Äôs **academic
integrity policy**!

### For teachers

Feel free to use this project in your own teaching. If you modify it,
please change the first line somehow like:

*This repository is a Data Science Homework Project made by \[YOUR
NAME\] based on \[LINK TO THIS REPOSITORY\].*

The main purpose is that it does not look that I am not responsible for
your version.

I am happy to hear about your usage and modifications if you like to
notify me.
